---
title: DietPi v10.0
description: Release notes for DietPi v10.0 from January 2026
image: https://dietpi.com/docs/assets/images/dietpi-release-v10_0.webp
---

# Release Notes

## January 2026 (version 10.0)

### Overview

The **January 17th, 2026** release of **DietPi v10.0** comes with new software packages *Uptime-Kuma* and *ownCloud Infinite Scale*, it contains further enhancements and fixes.  
From this release on, at least **Debian 12 (Bookworm)** is required.

![The image shows a futuristic environment with two single-board computers, each with a screen attached. The screen on the right side shows the desktop of the other screen in a window, indicating a remote desktop session. 5 Christmas elves can be seen, one of them tinkering on a port of the left-side single-board computer, anther one pointing at or touching the right-side screen. Some snow flakes decorate the image.](../assets/images/dietpi-release-v9_20.webp "Futuristic Tech Harmony"){: width="1536" height="1024" loading="lazy"}

!!! cite "\"Futuristic Tech Harmony\" by ChatGPT/Sora"

### Breaking

- The minimum Debian version supported by our scripts has been raised to Debian 12 Bookworm. Debian 11 Bullseye systems will be migrated to a dedicated branch automatically. We highly recommend to upgrade affected systems to Debian 12 Bookworm, following our guide: <https://dietpi.com/blog/?p=3128>. Once the upgrade has been done, the update to DietPi v10 will be offered on next update check or when running `dietpi-update`.
- The minimum DietPi version to support direct updates to DietPi v10 from has been raised to v8.0. Older systems will go through a two-stage process, being upgraded to DietPi v9.20 on a separate branch, and afterwards further to DietPi v10 via master branch, if the Debian version requirement is met as well.

### New software

- **ownCloud Infinite Scale** :octicons-arrow-right-16: This successor of the classic ownCloud file sync and share platform has been added to our software catalogue.
- [**DietPi-Software**](../dietpi_tools/software_installation.md#dietpi-software) | [**Uptime-Kuma**](../software/system_stats.md#uptime-kuma) :octicons-arrow-right-16: This self-hosted monitoring tool has been added to our software catalogue. Many thanks to @JappeHallunken for implementing this software option: <https://github.com/MichaIng/DietPi/pull/7888>

### Removed SBC support

- The removed of support for Debian 11 Bullseye implies the removal of support for the **Sparky SBC**, **NanoPi M2/T2/Fire2**, and **NanoPi M3/T3/Fire3** families. Images for those SBCs ship with very old vendor Linux versions, which cannot run Debian 13 Trixie. They already had issues which Debian 12 Bookworm, which is the reason we provided only Bullseye images for those. If anyone finds functional mainline-based Linux and U-Boot sources, or is able to rebase the needed drivers and device trees, we are happy to re-implement support.

### Removed software

- [**DietPi-Software**](../dietpi_tools/software_installation.md#dietpi-software) | **RPi Cam Web Interface** :octicons-arrow-right-16: The removal of support for Debian 11 Bullseye implies the removal of the RPi Cam Web Interface software option. It depends on the legacy `MMAL camera interface`, while the related userspace libraries have been removed from the Bookworm packages of the Raspberry Pi repository. Maintenance for this project stalled since several years, and there is no active fork. We are focusing on `motionEye` and `mjpg-streamer` as generic camera and motion detection web interfaces, which both support libcamera indirectly via `libcamerify`, and have native support in view.
- [**DietPi-Software**](../dietpi_tools/software_installation.md#dietpi-software) | **ownCloud** :octicons-arrow-right-16: The removal of support for Debian 11 Bullseye implies the removal of the classic ownCloud software option. It does not support PHP 8.x, and development stalled. Instead we integrated support for the actively developed `ownCloud Infinite Scale` (see above), and a migration to Nextcloud is alternatively possible: <https://github.com/MichaIng/DietPi/pull/7886>

### Enhancement

- [**Raspberry Pi**](../hardware.md#raspberry-pi) :octicons-arrow-right-16: DietPi can now be selected within the Raspberry Pi Imager below "Other general-purpose OS" for all Raspberry Pi models.
- [**Quartz64**](../hardware.md#pine64) :octicons-arrow-right-16: The new Linux Rocket NPU driver has been enabled for this SBC family.
- [**DietPi-Tools**](../dietpi_tools.md) | [**DietPi-LetsEncrypt**](../dietpi_tools/software_installation.md#dietpi-letsencrypt) :octicons-arrow-right-16: For Nginx from Debian Trixie on, the HTTP/2 syntax has been updated and HTTP/3 with QUIC is enabled. The change can be applied retrospectively by re-running `dietpi-letsencrypt`. Many thanks to @JappeHallunken for implementing this enhancement: <https://github.com/MichaIng/DietPi/pull/7860>

### Bug fixes

- [**Radxa ZERO 3**](../hardware.md#radxa) :octicons-arrow-right-16:  Resolved an issue where onboard WiFi on the 3W did not work with the new kernel. Many thanks to @lsx285 and others for reporting this issue and testing fixed kernel builds: <https://github.com/MichaIng/DietPi/issues/7867>. The kernel has been updated on our AP repository, hence the issue won't appear anymore when updating DietPi or the package.
- [**Orange Pi 3B v2.1**](../hardware.md#orange-pi-series) :octicons-arrow-right-16: Resolved an issue where boot stalled if WiFi was enabled, which includes fresh images. The `UNISOC/Spreadtrum` 3rd party driver was tried to be loaded, which is not only unnecessary on revision 2.1 with Broadcom WiFi/Bluetooth chip, but causes a NULL pointer dereference from a certain Linux version on. The board revision is now detected in our scripts and the `UNISOC` driver loaded on v1.1 only. Many thanks to @techplayz32 and @Girb826 for reporting this issue: <https://github.com/MichaIng/DietPi/issues/7728>
- [**Orange Pi 3/3 LTS**](../hardware.md#orange-pi-series) :octicons-arrow-right-16: Resolved an issue where WiFi and Bluetooth did not work without manually loading the related kernel modules `sprdwl_ng` and `sprdbt_tty` respectively. This is now done when toggling WiFi and Bluetooth via dietpi-config or dietpi.txt. Many thanks to @iMagz for reporting this issue: <https://github.com/MichaIng/DietPi/issues/7878>
- [**DietPi-Software**](../dietpi_tools/software_installation.md#dietpi-software) | [**Home Assistant**](../software/home_automation.md#home-assistant) :octicons-arrow-right-16: Resolved an issue where the installation could have failed on RISC-V and ARMv6/7 Bookworm systems due to missing dependencies.
- [**DietPi-Software**](../dietpi_tools/software_installation.md#dietpi-software) | [**Home Assistant**](../software/home_automation.md#home-assistant) :octicons-arrow-right-16: Worked around an issue where the installation and service start failed due to a missing upper dependency declaration. The issue has been solved at Home Assistant for their upcoming release, which will make our workaround obsolete.
- [**DietPi-Software**](../dietpi_tools/software_installation.md#dietpi-software) | [**BirdNET-Go**](../software/camera.md#birdnet-go) :octicons-arrow-right-16: The latest (pre-)release will now be detected and installed instead of a hardcoded version, which solves an upstream bug where reviewing bird detections did not work. Many thanks to @Sonnenfleck and @oturn for reporting the issue and testing newer versions, as well as @JappeHallunken for implementing the dynamic release download: <https://github.com/MichaIng/DietPi/issues/7861>, <https://github.com/MichaIng/DietPi/pull/7889>
- [**DietPi-Software**](../dietpi_tools/software_installation.md#dietpi-software) | [**Mopidy**](../software/media.md#mopidy) :octicons-arrow-right-16: Resolved an issue where fetching remote streams failed due to an incompatibility between Mopidy and GStreamer on Debian Trixie. Many thanks to @miloit for reporting this issue: <https://github.com/MichaIng/DietPi/issues/7866>

As always, many smaller code performance and stability improvements, visual and spelling fixes have been done, too much to list all of them here. Check out all code changes of this release on GitHub: <https://github.com/MichaIng/DietPi/pull/7900>
