---
title: DietPi v9.19
description: Release notes for DietPi v9.19 from November 2025
image: https://dietpi.com/docs/assets/images/dietpi-release-v9_19.webp
---

# Release Notes

## November 2025 (version 9.19)

### Overview

The **November 15th, 2025** release of **DietPi v9.19** comes with a new software package BirdNET-Go, Trixie support for UrBackup, NAA Daemon, Moonlight (GUI), Medusa and further fixes.

![The image shows a futuristic room with a large window in the back. One can see a tree with 4 singing birds through the window. Inside of the room is a table with a microphone close to the window, connected to a single-board computer on the right side of the image. Above is a holographic screen which shows audio waves on the left, mapped to birds on the right side of the screen.](../assets/images/dietpi-release-v9_19.webp "Futuristic Tech Harmony"){: width="1536" height="1024" loading="lazy"}

!!! cite "\"Futuristic Tech Harmony\" by ChatGPT/Sora"

### New software

- [**DietPi-Software**](../dietpi_tools/software_installation.md#dietpi-software) | [**BirdNET-Go**](../software/camera.md#birdnet-go) :octicons-arrow-right-16: This continuous avian monitoring and identification system has been added to our software catalogue. Many thanks to @mtekman for implementing this software option: <https://github.com/MichaIng/DietPi/pull/7770>

### Enhancements

- [**DietPi-Banner**](../dietpi_tools/misc_tools.md#dietpi-banner) :octicons-arrow-right-16: An option to wrap the banner output for smaller terminals/screens has been added. Run `dietpi-banner` from console to configure its output and find the new option at the bottom of the list. Many thanks to @mtekman for implementing this feature: <https://github.com/MichaIng/DietPi/pull/7779>
- [**DietPi-Software**](../dietpi_tools/software_installation.md#dietpi-software) | [**UrBackup**](../software/cloud.md#urbackup) :octicons-arrow-right-16: Packages are now installed via official APT repository: <https://download.opensuse.org/repositories/home:/uroni/>. Aside of the benefit of updates via `apt upgrade`, this allowed us to unlock support for Debian Trixie and above. Also support for ARMv6 has been added, but only until Debian Bookworm for now. A Raspbian Trixie suite does not exist yet.
- [**DietPi-Software**](../dietpi_tools/software_installation.md#dietpi-software) | [**NAA Daemon**](../software/media.md#naa-daemon) :octicons-arrow-right-16: Support for Debian Trixie and above on ARMv6/7 systems has been unlocked.
- [**DietPi-Software**](../dietpi_tools/software_installation.md#dietpi-software) | [**Moonlight (GUI)**](../software/gaming.md#moonlight-gui) :octicons-arrow-right-16: Support for Debian Trixie and above on ARMv7 systems has been unlocked.
- [**DietPi-Software**](../dietpi_tools/software_installation.md#dietpi-software) | [**Medusa**](../software/bittorrent.md#medusa) :octicons-arrow-right-16: Support for Debian Trixie has been unlocked thanks to Python 3.13 support with v1.0.25: <https://github.com/pymedusa/Medusa/releases/tag/v1.0.25>
- [**DietPi-Software**](../dietpi_tools/software_installation.md#dietpi-software) | [**Mosquitto**](../software/hardware_projects.md#mosquitto) :octicons-arrow-right-16: The official <https://repo.mosquitto.org/debian/> APT repository is now used as well on Debian Trixie.

### Bug fixes

- [**Raspberry Pi**](../hardware.md#raspberry-pi) :octicons-arrow-right-16: We updated our `raspberrypi-sys-mods` package to be compatible with the new kernel stack and Raspberry Pi 5. This solves several issues like missing serial console access on first boot, missing device nodes or permissions to access them with GPIO/I2C/SPI/video system groups.
- **Allwinner H3/H5 SBCs** :octicons-arrow-right-16: Resolved an issue where using an RTC with Allwinner H3 and H5 SoC SBCs was difficult, since the the SoC-embedded one was enabled and assigned `/dev/rtc0` node. However, only the NanoPi R1 has an actual RTC battery socket, in all other cases that embedded RTC is unusable. An external RTC, e.g. attached via I2C, was assigned to `/dev/rtc1`. The kernel however reads and assigns to system clock only `/dev/rtc0`, and worse, that factory timestamp is synced back to `/dev/rtc1` (if present) at a very early boot stage, making even manual `hwclock --hctosys --rtc /dev/rtc1` calls from userland a race condition. The SoC-embedded RTC is now disabled for all Allwinner H3/H5 boards but the NanoPi R1. If you were fiddling with this, for I2C RTCs, the device usually still needs to be created manually, or via device tree overlay. We can add such our kernel builds, just let us know which I2C RTC you use. Many thanks to [@kevinds](https://dietpi.com/forum/u/kevinds){: class="nospellcheck"} for reporting this issue: <https://dietpi.com/forum/t/5116/12>
- [**DietPi-Tools**](../dietpi_tools.md) | [**DietPi-Update**](../dietpi_tools/system_maintenance.md#dietpi-update) :octicons-arrow-right-16: Resolved an issue on Debian Trixie systems with ZeroTier installed, where the update from DietPi v9.17 to v9.18 updated the ZeroTier APT repo falsely, leading to an "apt update" error. Many thanks to [@randell1993](https://dietpi.com/forum/u/randell1993){: class="nospellcheck"} for reporting this issue: <https://dietpi.com/forum/t/24580>
- [**DietPi-Software**](../dietpi_tools/software_installation.md#dietpi-software) | [**Jellyfin**](../software/media.md#jellyfin) :octicons-arrow-right-16: Resolved an issue where the service start failed due to new strict space requirements for logging (512 MiB) and temporary directories (2 GiB). To support low RAM devices, we use `/mnt/dietpi_userdata/jellyfin/log` for log files, and a subdirectory in `/mnt/dietpi_userdata/jellyfin/cache` for temporary files, restoring behaviour from Jellyfin before v10.10. This can be adjusted in `/etc/default/jellyfin`.
- [**DietPi-Software**](../dietpi_tools/software_installation.md#dietpi-software) | [**Node.js**](../software/programming.md#nodejs) :octicons-arrow-right-16: Resolved an issue where usage could have failed, including Node-RED, Blynk Server, and MineOS installation, since it requires `libatomic` now for all architectures. Many thanks to [@devifast](https://dietpi.com/forum/u/devifast){: class="nospellcheck"} for reporting this issue: <https://dietpi.com/forum/t/24574>
- [**DietPi-Software**](../dietpi_tools/software_installation.md#dietpi-software) | [**Lidarr**](../software/bittorrent.md#lidarr)/[**Prowlarr**](../software/bittorrent.md#prowlarr) :octicons-arrow-right-16: Resolved an issue on Bullseye systems where the service fails due to an incompatible embedded SQLite library: <https://wiki.servarr.com/lidarr/faq#lidarr-wont-start-on-debian-11-or-older-systems-due-to-sqlite-version>, <https://wiki.servarr.com/prowlarr/faq#prowlarr-wont-start-on-debian-11-or-older-systems-due-to-sqlite-version>
- [**DietPi-Software**](../dietpi_tools/software_installation.md#dietpi-software) | [**SABnzbd**](../software/bittorrent.md#sabnzbd) :octicons-arrow-right-16: Resolved an issue where the installation could have finished with an incomplete config file. Many thanks to @DealsBeam for resolving this issue: <https://github.com/MichaIng/DietPi/pull/7797>
- [**DietPi-Software**](../dietpi_tools/software_installation.md#dietpi-software) | [**Bazarr**](../software/bittorrent.md#bazarr) :octicons-arrow-right-16: Resolved an issue where configuring Sonarr and Radarr usage automatically if installed did not work, because Bazarr switched from `bazarr.ini` to `bazarr.yaml` as its config file. Many thanks to @Joulinar for reporting this issue: <https://github.com/MichaIng/DietPi/issues/7185>
- [**DietPi-Software**](../dietpi_tools/software_installation.md#dietpi-software) | [**Medusa**](../software/bittorrent.md#medusa) :octicons-arrow-right-16: Resolved an issue where the service failed to start because it tries to lift sandboxing for a directory that does not exist. We create our own systemd service from now on, instead of using and altering the template, which implies tailored sandboxing, better startup ordering, and a meaningful system log identifier.

As always, many smaller code performance and stability improvements, visual and spelling fixes have been done, too much to list all of them here. Check out all code changes of this release on GitHub: <https://github.com/MichaIng/DietPi/pull/7806>
