---
title: DietPi v9.18
description: Release notes for DietPi v9.18 from October 2025
image: https://dietpi.com/docs/assets/images/dietpi-release-v9_18.webp
---

# Release Notes

## October 2025 (version 9.18)

### Overview

The **October 18th, 2025** release of **DietPi v9.18** comes with support of the NanoPi R3S, R3S LTS, R76S and M5. Additionally with the new software title LazyLibrarian, a reworked DietPi-Dashboard, and more.

![The image shows a futuristic room in comic art style with a violet to cyan colour scheme. There is a library bookshelf at the left wall with a sleeping robot sitting and leaning against it. The centre of the image shows a holographic screen showing some dashboard, attached to two computer systems below it. At the right side there is a single-board computer, attached to the other computers, with a Pi (number) sign and a small "n" in a cycle on it.](../assets/images/dietpi-release-v9_18.webp "Futuristic Tech Unveiled"){: width="1536" height="1024" loading="lazy"}

!!! cite "\"Futuristic Tech Unveiled\" by ChatGPT/Sora"

### New hardware

- [**NanoPi NanoPi R3S/R3S LTS**](../hardware.md#nanopi-series-friendlyelec) :octicons-arrow-right-16: Support and images for the LTS and non-LTS variant of this FriendlyELEC SBC with Rockchip RK3566 and two Gbit Ethernet ports has been added. The LTS variant comes with an HDMI port, the non-LTS variant without. Kernel device tree and userland setup for the non-LTS variant is tailored for headless usage, hence be sure to use the correct image.
- [**NanoPi NanoPi R76S/M5**](../hardware.md#nanopi-series-friendlyelec) :octicons-arrow-right-16: Support and images for these two FriendlyELEC SBCs with the new Rockchip RK3576 SoC has been added.

### New software

- [**DietPi-Software**](../dietpi_tools/software_installation.md#dietpi-software) | [**LazyLibrarian**](../software/bittorrent.md#lazylibrarian) :octicons-arrow-right-16: This ebook and audio book collection manager has been added to our software catalogue. It can server as a replacement for Readarr, which is not developed anymore. Many thanks to @JappeHallunken for implementing this software option: <https://github.com/MichaIng/DietPi/pull/7747>

### Enhancements

- [**DietPi-Software**](../dietpi_tools/software_installation.md#dietpi-software) | [**DietPi-Dashboard**](../software/system_stats.md#dietpi-dashboard) :octicons-arrow-right-16: A reworked version of the dashboard has been implemented, with better default security, fixed and more flexible frontend/backend node handling and maintainability. The look&feel and features are mostly the same, but under the hood a lot has changed. For now, on reinstall, the old dashboard is disabled but not removed, so one can switch by disabling the new services and enabling the old one. TLS is now enabled by default with auto-generated self-signed certificates. Frontend and backend are two dedicated services. Backends connect at port 5353 by default, while the web UI is accessible at port 5252 by default, like before. While security is generally better, the rework has not been battle-tested thoroughly, hence the general recommendations for such kind of admin interfaces apply especially in this case: Do not open any of the two ports to the Internet directly, use a firewall if there is no router/NAT in between, and use a VPN if remote access is required for some reason. Many thanks to @nonnorm for the huge efforts of this major rework: <https://github.com/nonnorm/DietPi-Dashboard/pull/1100>
- [**DietPi-Tools**](../dietpi_tools.md) | [**DietPi-Drive_Manager**](../dietpi_tools/system_configuration.md#dietpi-drive-manager) / **DietPi-FS_partition_resize** :octicons-arrow-right-16: Support for Xen virtual block devices has been added, which follow the scheme `/dev/xvd[a-z][1-9]`. Many thanks to @jr551 for implementing this compatibility enhancement: <https://github.com/MichaIng/DietPi/pull/7755>
- [**DietPi-Tools**](../dietpi_tools.md) | [**DietPi-Config**](../dietpi_tools/system_configuration.md#dietpi-config) :octicons-arrow-right-16: The SPI bootloader update option and method has been made more generic, to be shown whenever the installed U-Boot package provides a related function and any SPI storage device node exists. The function call has been adjusted to not fail if the function supports both: flashing via `mtd-utils`/`flashcp` to `/dev/mtd0` as well as flashing via `dd` to the block device node `/dev/mtdblock0`. In some cases, the wrong device node was passed to the function. Many thanks to @mlanner for reporting this issue: <https://github.com/MichaIng/DietPi/issues/7761>

### Bug fixes

- **DietPi-FS_partition_resize** (service) :octicons-arrow-right-16: Resolved an issue where the first reboot could have resulted in a hanging system, requiring a power cycle. On systems with ext4 root filesystem but without filesystem journal, it is generated on first boot. If an `initramfs` is used and performs an `fsck`, it imports the journal from `/.journal` to a hidden inode 8. For some reason, it then fails to mount that filesystem, requiring another reboot where `fsck` regenerates the journal, after which everything works fine. To avoid this, right after our script generates the journal, it triggers a reboot with forced `fsck`. `fsck` then does not only import the journal from `/.journal` to a hidden inode 8, but repairs whichever quirk this causes immediately, so that mounting the roofs succeeds right away.
- [**DietPi-Tools**](../dietpi_tools/system_configuration.md) | [**DietPi-AutoStart**](../dietpi_tools/system_configuration.md#dietpi-autostart) :octicons-arrow-right-16: Fixed a typo which prevents KMS/DRM from being enabled on Raspberry Pi Trixie systems if a LightDM-based autostart option is selected: LightDM login mask or automatic desktop login as non-root user. Many thanks to @TheRaven500 for reporting this issue: <https://github.com/MichaIng/DietPi/issues/7644#issuecomment-3329753442>
- [**DietPi-Tools**](../dietpi_tools/software_installation.md) | [**DietPi-LetsEncrypt**](../dietpi_tools/software_installation.md#dietpi-letsencrypt) :octicons-arrow-right-16: The OCSP toggle has been removed, since Let's Encrypt shut down their OCSP servers this summer. You may need to remove respective settings from your Apache (`SSLUseStapling`, `SSLStaplingCache`, and other directives starting with `SSLStapling*`) or Nginx config respectively. For details about why OCSP has been deprecated, see this article: <https://letsencrypt.org/2024/12/05/ending-ocsp>
- [**DietPi-Software**](../dietpi_tools/software_installation.md#dietpi-software) | [**GMediaRender**](../software/media.md#gmediarender) :octicons-arrow-right-16: Resolved an issue on Debian Trixie and Forky images where the package from Debian was installed instead of our own, since there was an upstream release we missed, which changed the version string only. Many thanks to @eevan78 for reporting this issue: <https://github.com/MichaIng/DietPi/issues/7767>

As always, many smaller code performance and stability improvements, visual and spelling fixes have been done, too much to list all of them here. Check out all code changes of this release on GitHub: <https://github.com/MichaIng/DietPi/pull/7774>
