---
title: DietPi v9.17
description: Release notes for DietPi v9.17 from September 2025
image: https://dietpi.com/docs/assets/images/dietpi-release-v9_17.webp
---

# Release Notes

## September 2025 (version 9.17)

### Overview

The **September 20rd, 2025** release of **DietPi v9.17** comes with faster and less disk space consuming DietPi backups, a Roon Server early access toggle, solved SPI storage flashing issues, and more.

![The image presents a single-board computer within a futuristic facility setting in a 3D comic art style. 3 pregnant symbols around the SBC show a storage with a tick, a stable/early-access toggle with a music note, and a microchip with a tick on it respectively. 4 minions are around, climbing a ladder, touching the GPIO pins of the SBC, and cheering respectively.](../assets/images/dietpi-release-v9_17.webp "Futuristic OS Launch"){: width="1536" height="1024" loading="lazy"}

!!! cite "\"Futuristic OS Launch\" by ChatGPT/Sora"

### Enhancements

- **Images** :octicons-arrow-right-16: Our images are now shipped without ext3/ext4 journal, and instead the `dietpi-fs_partition_resize` script creates it after the root filesystem has been expanded. This allows smaller images, but more importantly a properly located and sized journal, depending on the final root filesystem size and layout, potentially enhancing performance. Since the journal can often only be added if the filesystem expansion was successful, and is a critical element for data crash resilience on ext3/ext4, it is now checked on first login whether it exists, else a prompt is shown, to make aware and fix the underlying issue, before seriously using DietPi. Please report if you see this prompt. The script overall seems to run more stable due to other structural changes, but as always, there might be points of failure we could not identify via tests yet.
- [**Raspberry Pi**](../hardware.md#raspberry-pi) :octicons-arrow-right-16: Support for HiFiBerry sound cards in `dietpi-config` has been updated, to include recent models, and take into account the newly split overlays for DAC+/AMP2/AMP4 and DAC+ Pro/DAC2. If you run an older system with Linux 6.1 and migrate to the new Linux 6.12 kernel stack (with our dedicated script or `dietpi-config` Advanced Options), using one of these HiFiBerry sound cards, a prompt allows you to re-select the matching sound card to keep it functional. Many thanks to @Daoro for making us aware of this change: <https://github.com/MichaIng/DietPi/issues/7644#issuecomment-3299414462>
- [**DietPi-Tools**](../dietpi_tools.md) | [**DietPi-Backup**](../dietpi_tools/system_maintenance.md#dietpi-backup-backuprestore) :octicons-arrow-right-16: If multiple backups are created (and kept), the `rsync` `--link-dest` option is now used to create files which did not change between last and current backup iteration as hard links to the last iteration. This usually leads to massively reduced effective disk usage and backup speedups, since unchanged files do not need to be copied, while every backup iteration however remains fully self-contained. Many thanks to @nicojx for making us aware of `rsnapshot`, which uses the same technique: <https://github.com/MichaIng/DietPi/discussions/7711>
- [**DietPi-Software**](../dietpi_tools/software_installation.md#dietpi-software) | [**Navidrome**](../software/media.md#navidrome) :octicons-arrow-right-16: Our default config now follows the upstream default, fetching album art not only from images embedded in media files, but also from common dedicated directory names and online from `Last.fm` as last resort. The change, however, is not applied retrospectively. If needed, remove the `CoverArtPriority` line from `/mnt/dietpi_userdata/navidrome/navidrome.toml`, or adjust it to your needs: <https://www.navidrome.org/docs/usage/artwork/#albums>. Many thanks to @ImNoExpertButOK for raising this topic: <https://github.com/MichaIng/DietPi/issues/7719>
- [**DietPi-Software**](../dietpi_tools/software_installation.md#dietpi-software) | [**Roon Server**](../software/media.md#roon-server) :octicons-arrow-right-16: A new dialogue and related `dietpi.txt` setting `SOFTWARE_ROONSERVER_EARLYACCESS` allows to select and switch between stable and early access builds. Information about the Roon Early Access Program can be found here: <https://help.roonlabs.com/portal/en/kb/articles/roon-early-access-program>. Many thanks to [@Wade_Oram](https://community.roonlabs.com/u/wade_oram){: class="nospellcheck"} for raising this topic: <https://community.roonlabs.com/t/272420>
- [**DietPi-Software**](../dietpi_tools/software_installation.md#dietpi-software) | [**NZBGet**](../software/bittorrent.md#nzbget) :octicons-arrow-right-16: Our default config does not apply the insecure and (hopefully) widely unsupported RC4-MD5 TLS cipher for news server connections anymore, and removes the setting as well on DietPi update, if it was not changed already. This enhances the security of news data transfers and solves connections throwing `Could not select cipher for TLS: error:0A0000B9:SSL routines::no cipher match` errors. Many thanks to @maartenlangeveld for reporting this issue: <https://github.com/MichaIng/DietPi/issues/7726>

### Bug fixes

- **General** :octicons-arrow-right-16: Resolved an issue where in case of a `/boot` bind mount or Btrfs subvolume, the block device path of the mount source was falsely detected, containing a `[/path]` suffix. The `findmnt` `-v`/`--nofsroot` option is now consequently used when querying the mount `SOURCE`. Many thanks to @AnonymousMonkeyNo12 for reporting a related issue when our Quartz64 kernel package attempts to flash the bootloader: <https://github.com/MichaIng/DietPi/issues/7698>
- [**Raspberry Pi**](../hardware.md#raspberry-pi) :octicons-arrow-right-16: Resolved an issue on Debian Trixie where the LightDM did not work without enabling KMS/DRM, and hence the related `dietpi-autostart` option, as well as desktop autologin as non-root user. It is strictly required for recent LightDM and is hence now done automatically. Many thanks to @TheRaven500 for reporting this issue: <https://github.com/MichaIng/DietPi/issues/7644#issuecomment-3221254709>
- **Rockchip SoCs** :octicons-arrow-right-16: Resolved an issue where flashing the SPI bootloader could fail, since `dialog` was called if multiple U-Boot images were available, e.g. to select between M.2 NVMe and SATA support. These calls are now replaced with whiptail, which is pre-installed on DietPi.
- **Rockchip SoCs** :octicons-arrow-right-16: Resolved an issue where flashing the SPI bootloader could fail on Bullseye systems, since `flashcp` was called with the `-p` flag in some cases, supported only from Bookworm on. Many thanks to [@Arkem](https://dietpi.com/forum/u/Arkem){: class="nospellcheck"} for reporting this issue: <https://dietpi.com/forum/t/23426/46>
- [**DietPi-Tools**](../dietpi_tools.md) | [**DietPi-Config**](../dietpi_tools/system_configuration.md#dietpi-config) :octicons-arrow-right-16: Resolved a v9.13 regression where setting CPU frequency limits was not possible. This has been solved for DietPi v9.16 as well via live patch. Many thanks to @gitlankford for reporting this issue: <https://github.com/MichaIng/DietPi/issues/7696>
- [**DietPi-Software**](../dietpi_tools/software_installation.md#dietpi-software) :octicons-arrow-right-16: Resolved a v9.16 regression where installations failed if respective services were previously masked. Many thanks to @wiedehopf for reporting this issue: <https://github.com/MichaIng/DietPi/issues/7712>
- [**DietPi-Software**](../dietpi_tools/software_installation.md#dietpi-software) | [**Portainer**](../software/system_stats.md#portainer) :octicons-arrow-right-16: Resolved a v9.16 regression where the installation could not manage the local Docker environment since the Docker socket was mounted to a wrong path. This has been solved for DietPi v9.16 as well via live patch. Many thanks to @pappv-dd for reporting this issue: <https://github.com/MichaIng/DietPi/issues/7691>
- [**DietPi-Software**](../dietpi_tools/software_installation.md#dietpi-software) | [**Home Assistant**](../software/home_automation.md#home-assistant) :octicons-arrow-right-16: Resolved an issue where the first start setup failed because of a missing new dependency. Many thanks to [@mike1](https://dietpi.com/forum/u/mike1){: class="nospellcheck"} and @Dynamic5912 for reporting this issue: <https://dietpi.com/forum/t/24135>, <https://github.com/MichaIng/DietPi/issues/7731>
- [**DietPi-Software**](../dietpi_tools/software_installation.md#dietpi-software) | [**Icecast/DarkIce**](../software/media.md#icecast) :octicons-arrow-right-16: Resolved an issue where using `&` or `<` as default software password resulted in a failing service start, since those characters have a special meaning in XML. They are now automatically HTML-encoded, which is treated correctly by the web UI for authentication. Many thanks to [@gilou](https://dietpi.com/forum/u/gilou){: class="nospellcheck"} for reporting this issue: <https://dietpi.com/forum/t/24175>

As always, many smaller code performance and stability improvements, visual and spelling fixes have been done, too much to list all of them here. Check out all code changes of this release on GitHub: <https://github.com/MichaIng/DietPi/pull/7735>
